welcome to Sam's business growth show
I'm Sam Dunning additional marketing
sales and business growth evangelist
tune in and subscribe today as I'll be
interviewing business leaders experts
and entrepreneurs from around the globe
you'll be learning that story our
digital marketing has helped them along
the way and exclusive tips insights to
help you skyrocket your own business
[Music]
and welcome back to the show if you're
tuning in via video you may think Sam
what the heck's going on with your hair
since you last recorded well the truth
is the hairdresser's is still shut so
that's why it looks like a bit of a
match up anyway excited and delighted to
be joined by gaetano nino Donati today
Gaetano
is the director of demand generation at
Nextiva and he's got a track record of
success working with brands like major
league baseball pipe drive sales hacker
and outreach to i/o outside of marketing
gaitana is an accomplished music
producer and songwriter he's worked with
major artists such as Fat Joe shaggy and
he loves making music to stay
turbocharged Nextiva they're a cloud
communications company they enable
businesses to work from anywhere
think of Nextiva like a business phone
system with superpowers Gotama puts out
awesome content on LinkedIn I'm a lot of
stuff you've got to follow him when the
latest videos I saw was him running
around the street I think it was a move
called pitching people in real life so
all those spammy LinkedIn messages he
was actually doing there's a rule over
absolute blast it's Anna looking forward
to speaking man how you doing yeah yeah
thanks for having me Sam I appreciate
that there was a very warm welcome thank
you for that man and I'm just looking at
you know kicking it today with you and
and chatted up about bad growth
marketing business all that fun stuff
also man can't wait so there's a few key
things we want to learn from yourself
and we want to learn you being a digital
marketing expert and basically like
myself I reckon you're a hundred times
more knowledgeable so really want to
pick your brains and other things SEO
and what our audience can get stuck into
and yeah yeah we want to learn your top
digital marketing tips some of your
business growth strategies but before we
get onto the tool this juicy stuff we'd
love to know a bit more about yourself
katana really so where you grew up some
of the Keyblade places you've worked at
because I know you worked at some really
awesome places over the years and if you
could share with us some of the lessons
that you learn at each each place that
you've got worked at and up until now
that'd be awesome yeah yeah brother
i sudden i'm a new york city boy you
know i had your classic me i had your
classic new york city boy upbringing you
know playing stickball on the street
we played a lot of football English
football so that good good yeah played a
lot of play a lot of that that was a big
deal for me growing up I grew up in the
Bronx specifically so a really diverse
community predominantly Latino okay and
soccer soccer among like the the kids
that I grew up with was like a huge
thing
so mostly Real Madrid fans not my thing
you know I'm gonna I'm a Juventus fan
okay good teams toga team pretty cool
him oh nice man nice yeah so I grew up
watching English Premier League with my
grandpa we loved it and it was awesome
so yeah big soccer fan and you know I
like loves music my whole life like my
grandpa sang sang opera and Italy back
in the day and my dad's musician and my
mom was always playing music in the
house and I grew up in a very musical
household so when I was in college I was
getting into music production and I was
working with you know some pretty pretty
cool artists pretty big names and I
started blogging just about my
experiences as a music producer up
coming on the grind type stuff sure
and what I realized was my blog was
getting a ton of traffic without without
me even promoting it and I'm like damn
how are all these people finding my
stuff and then like you know I started
researching more and I started I became
really curious around like how are all
these comments appearing from random
people that I don't even know who they
are they're just commenting on my my
stuff so what I realized was oh man
they're searching things like you know
music company XYZ reviews I used to
write reviews about music companies
music publishers music event production
company
and stuff like that okay and yeah so
then what I realized was I had basically
felt I had fallen ass-backwards into SEO
got it and I and I love the idea brother
of not having to promote stuff manually
people just finding it because it's good
it's the and it was the opposite of my
music industry experience you know cuz
in the music business you could be
really good and people still not give a
about you because it's more of a
popularity play popularity contest
but with SEO like I really do feel like
especially now modern-day SEO the best
content really wins the best user
experience wins so you get rewarded for
doing good work and that's what I really
loved about it maybe I'll pause there
before I take you through like my oh
yeah yeah I was just gonna say it sounds
like you perfected SEO by accident and
yeah you started writing this blog and
it sounds like you're answering people's
questions that they were actually eager
or hungry to find out and that's pretty
much perfecting SEO putting together
content that reads well that's
informative that's going to get this
fresh that's gonna get picked up by
Google answers people's either questions
and the amount of spam and poor content
that goes out today if you do that now
and they'd be onto a winner so that's
that's awesome and so you did this was
to college and it start to get traction
right and people were going on they're
commenting and things were picking up
yeah yeah yeah exactly exactly so um did
it you know it all just kind of happened
like naturally too and I realize like
wow if you really just find out that the
what are the questions that people need
the answers to and and you produce that
in an honest and genuine way you're
gonna win and the thing that I that I
really that connected the dots you know
today to back then was I had the
experience of a music producer I was
actually a music producer talking about
the that music producers go through
and so it had this this real life
authenticity to it which was also why it
was really good and that's the problem
would be to be you know you have like
companies trying to produce content
unlike you know the best kind of drip
sequences to use for this kind of
cadence and meanwhile it's someone who
has never done a
they're just recycling other people's
information so if you think of it in
terms of like email they're just they're
just forwarding other information
they're forwarding an email they're
right in the email they're just
forwarding an existing email so you know
I think that's the difference nowadays
is that a lot of companies that are
producing b2b content they don't
actually have the experience doing the
thing that they're producing and
therefore it's harder to have that
authenticity and genuine voice behind
what they're writing about what they're
creating but you know I I figured it out
long ago this I was doing this back in
2010 so I figured it out long ago that
if you write from experience and you
create the best possible content you're
gonna win awesome some great advice
there for anyone tuning in that wants to
brush up on their SEO skills so in terms
this blog so that took off and you're
doing music in college so I know you've
had you've had a career in music guitar
no so what was the next step so you
finished college right and you went into
the music industry or were you doing SEO
as well yeah so when I was in college
man I wasn't doing any SEO yeah I
actually was on track to become like a
user experience designer a graphical
designer yeah I really wanted to be a
creative director that was like one of
my goals like I wanted to be a creative
director for like you know an
entertainment based business so maybe
working at a company like a complex comm
or maybe a music label some cool
like that you know and what I what I
ultimately realized was you know
damn man I have no connections like I
have some connections in the business
but like in terms of like getting a job
at like a music company or getting a job
at like one of those you know those cool
companies so to speak you got to be
really plugged in it's very political
and so I also graduated during a time
when the US was in very high turmoil
because of the financial meltdown so
there actually weren't that many
opportunities available so I was still
doing like music production and I was
working in music studios so I had a
master's degree and I was an
I couldn't get a job so I was doing like
you know work that I was overqualified
for essentially but um you know I ended
up applying to an SEO agency in New York
and I and I had gotten the job and my
test project was to present the the
marketing strategy behind my music
career that was that was the yeah so I
did so I did that and it went well and
then I got thrown right into the deep
end straightaway I was working with you
know Trojan condoms was like my first
client project Wow okay Chris the first
response pregnancy testing kit so I had
to do like keyword research on all that
stuff and like Trojan condoms wanted to
rank for some like crazy terms and then
I was working with major league baseball
of course that was like a year-long
project where I was doing all sorts of
insane work on like mobile optimization
and fixing vanity domain problems and
writing title tags and meta descriptions
for like all their team pages in English
and Spanish like doing doing really
in-depth stuff like you know just just
want to jump in so that was that was
quite a leap so you said you left
college you're struggling to get a job
but then you managed to learn this this
SEO company and you're working really
high profile clients well it sounds a
bit so I've not heard of Trojan condom
so I'm sure they're a big brand in the
US and Major League Baseball of course
I've heard of so I'm sure there's some
some lessons and strategies lessons you
could definitely show us in terms of how
you landed that job how he managed to
work with these real high end big
balling clients yeah so so the guy that
I worked with was this guy named Mike
King then he's like a SEO celebrity and
and rightfully so he's one of the top I
would say in the world and I started so
when I realized that I was getting good
at SEO by accident I started following
SEO blogs and I noticed him as a
contributor so like all the big ones and
he would come up all the time and I
loved this that he would write
about so I actually researched him on
LinkedIn found them and I sent him a
cold DM and I said dude I
to work I want to work with you I want
to work for you like I don't know what I
have to do like and then I was reading
his story more he also was in the music
business back in the day he was an
international touring rapper independent
rapper and he's really good he's a beast
yeah and he's one of these superhuman
freaks of nature where he can code in
like every computer language he knows
SEO at the back of his hand he's a
performer he's a great writer he's a
great speaker like he's just a freak of
nature type of person like he's too good
at stuff for like that's the best I
could play yeah we all know someone
doing but yeah exactly he's just he's
just a next-level type of person so I
learned like from the best like straight
away and you know his strategy was
shadow me but I'm also gonna throw you
in the deep end so because he had this
big celebrity profile he was able to
land all these big clients and to this
day he's he's still doing it and I would
just shadow him I would have shadow him
and and and learn that way but yeah he
already had these client engagements you
know booked so he was just throwing me
in the deep end straightaway you know
get in there just just roll up your
sleeves and get in there and you know I
really learned by doing so whoo
if it wasn't for that experience early
on I don't think I'd be here today
that's a really smart move what year was
that good sunny is that Walla gay yeah
that was that was definitely while we're
talking like 2012 so you you basically
researched him you're following SEO
blogs and Cody and him found one
LinkedIn
found some common ground in the music
side of things Cody Emmett area I didn't
even know you could do that back in 2012
cuz I've only been like I've been on
LinkedIn a few years but I only actively
started using it probably a year or two
ago so that was probably that's quite
early in the LinkedIn days oh yeah did
you know the LinkedIn game was way
different back then
mmm you literally only connected with
people that like you knew personally
there wasn't a lot of content being
shared groups or thing that's old dudes
groups were like popping like groups
were like they weren't spam factories
yeah like they were actual nice I think
what LinkedIn figured out was let's take
what's happening in groups and just move
it to the feed and it worked so so I
think yeah but LinkedIn
back in that time was kind of graveyard
ish like yeah you would only connect
with people you knew personally and like
there wasn't a lot of like engagement
like there is today it was way different
go to okay
so just before we carry on that when you
were in your intro you said he worked
with some major music artists like Fat
Joe shaggy many more was that all well
sure in college or was that after this
SEO gig or we missed a bit yeah so you
know what it continued in so it started
so yeah so while I was working at an SEO
company all the way up until today I
still I still do this you know I was I
was you know producing records and doing
mixing and mastering and engineering and
stuff like that I also play the guitar
so like that's how I got to work with
shaggy cuz he was looking for a studio
musician to come through and play some
guitar and some tracks and through a lot
of favors I had done for this one
engineer he had hit me up and made the
connect for him he's like yo man I got a
great opportunity Shaggy's looking to
work with someone the only catch is that
you got to go to his house because his
studio is at his house and that's where
he works so you're gonna go to Shaggy's
house sounds like a good catch I'm like
damn that's pretty sweet
so yeah went to Shaggy's house and
Shaggy is one of those guys that just he
likes to work like you like I showed up
I remember I showed up at like 10
o'clock at night didn't go home till
like 7:00 a.m. and like 7:00 a.m. he was
still he was still like fully energized
he's like yeah I gotta keep going I
gotta keep going like a guy who's that
successful that feels like I'm at the
bottom and it was really that was really
amazing to see sounds like quite a
humbling experience right on brother
yeah awesome do so go back to your story
you took a bit of a citrate lever that's
awesome you work with Shaggy so you
shouted this guy an SEO company did that
for some time then he eventually gave
you a job is that what happened or is it
slightly different so he gave me a job
straight away
oh nice okay yeah yeah he gave me a job
straight away but like my first like six
months on the job was really just like
shadow shadow shadow shadow and I was
like this by the way the agency was
really small I was the second person
hired
oh well so real stuff yeah yeah real
startup yeah I like the first six months
I was sitting on a box
you know we work like that's how it went
yeah yeah we I think we a lot of us have
been there so it was me Mike and this
other guy Rashard who's now Deloitte
consultant and he's another brilliant
guy so I worked with like two really
really smart people like straight off
the bat and I think like I created a lot
of good work habits during that time
like I would never hit up my manager
Mike I would never hit him up unless
like I exhausted every other Avenue of
research like Google books tutorials
okay I'm stuff and he'd help and then I
would hit him up but you know fast
forward to today where I'm managing a
lot of people that's the same
expectation I have with them like don't
come to me unless you really are stuck
like don't come to me for every little
problem because you know I can't hand
hold you and babysit you but in any case
I was there for some time and then what
I realized was I got really good at SEO
really fast okay in two in two years I
had learned more about SEO and at a
really advanced level than most SEO s
would learn in five years at like a big
company well and how would you say what
was the secret that enabled you to do
that so fast so it's just the nature of
agency work mm-hmm so when you're doing
like website audits over and over and
over like I've probably done man and
that time I probably had done like 50 or
60 different website audits of all
different types of websites you know
we're talking ecommerce sites that are
millions of pages deep SAS websites that
are like 2,000 pages you know I've done
I've kind of done it all
you know b2c b2b that real estate dental
diamond jewelry SAS of course like I've
done a lot and by doing all that variety
of you just you uncover every
single SEO problem by doing that like
I've seen I basically have seen it all
go - seen it all I've solved it all and
you know working at a big company you
don't you don't get exposed to that and
the other thing was I had to explain all
these problems to clients and then work
through the problems with them and how
to solve them
so you know I'd be working on four or
five different client accounts at a time
doing various tasks like optimizing
landing pages doing keyword research
creating keyword portfolios doing link
building technical issues right all the
sort of stuff and in two years of doing
that at a high level you just zoom to
the top dude in terms of like your yeah
I know you saw hundred percent and I can
relate and one of different levels when
was it starting market at agent
marketing agents you saw her about three
years ago on the sell side rather the
marketing side but was literally like
you say it was it was actually in my
boss he was my friend at the time in his
loft so we had there on two tiny desks
that we just purchased I was basically a
one-man band doing everything so I was
doing cold calling is generating clients
I was doing client account management I
was basically doing wireframes for
websites I was putting together data
lists I was doing everything end-to-end
cells and my heart because we had no in
Bound leads for about six months but
that's a whole nother story but that's
how I can relate so also my suit you
picked up a CEO really fast you guys
landed some really good clients by the
sounds of it and you're working with
some big names how is it managing those
clients was a hard work was it easy
you know I think like there was there
were certain clients that were more
high-touch high maintenance more
hands-on than others
like I remember Major League Baseball
they were actually super easy to work
with because they understood SEO and
they made like their you know those
people who just quote-unquote get it
like boom they just get it you don't
have to really spend a lot of time
explaining that's how that's how it
was working with Major League Baseball
they had like a really smart SEO team I
think they just were at like capacity
with certain things and and needed some
additional technical expertise but then
on the flip side of that you know I've
worked with like a couple of CRM
companies yeah who were like clueless
clueless and like with those ones you
got a really hold it like so wait how
does link building work how do you do
links like you know yeah so when you're
dealing with that it's like oh you know
but it's always fun when you're dealing
with marketing manage
and they're just questioning everything
you sell an SES are you ready luck seek
manager really yeah I did yeah yeah
exactly
exactly so it makes you wonder too like
damn like how do these people get jobs
and like what do they do all day you
know and I feel like the bigger the
company is the more you wonder like what
the hell is going on in that company but
yeah okay man sir and in terms of
landing those clients were you involved
in that because he sounded like it was
quite a small company or was that
different department or did they come in
bound for your own SEO sir I had nothing
to do with with earning those clients so
fair enough yeah so so Mike the the
managing director of vipole ranked the
same in the agency by the way he he was
and still is a major circuit speaker so
did he speak at all the major SEO
conferences you know Maas Khan PubCon
hub spots in bound you name it he's done
it and he doesn't he doesn't regularly
and just that level of visibility you're
gonna you're just gonna people are just
gonna hit you up you know when search
love all these like really good SEO
conferences SMX East SMX West all that
he's all over it so he got all the
client work by doing speaking
engagements at big conferences nice one
and I really any other lessons in terms
of business or digital marketing you can
share with us before we move on to the
next place you work I mean with with
with this with this one I'll close it
out by just saying like it was the
hardest it was the hardest like easy job
that I'd never want to do again
beginning because the thing about client
work is you know you're not really all
the way responsible for the end result I
mean you you know they rely on you and
you walk them through problems and stuff
but at the end of the day who's got to
do that work to get the traffic up
they've got to implement the
recommendations and you only understand
this when you go in house yourself
because then you're really accountable
then you're then it's really you can't
just do the audit and say okay here's
what we have to do didn't go do it so
that was that was the next thing that I
learned that that basically pipe
which is the next company how's that
from gone from the agency I like what
the point you've just raised before you
move on to pipedrive awesome company and
we got any tips for anyone tuning in
because I'm sure it doesn't really
matter what industry you're in getting
customers or your own clients to
implement things that you've recommended
so in your case SEO search engine
optimization techniques any any tips any
secrets on how we can get them to do
that because I know sometimes it's just
like feels like an endless cycle of
chasing people on email on cool please
can you do this update because it's
hindering our work we're not gonna see
results but obviously progress until you
do this on your website until you do
this whatever it may be
yeah we've all been that you know what I
usually do I remember the trick I used
to have one trick I used to work really
well I'd be like you know for like a
certain key like let's say there's an
important keyword that like you know
they want to rank for what I do is I'd
I'd remind them of what their how their
competitors are out ranking them so it's
just send them a screenshot of like hey
you guys are you know at the bottom of
page one look at your your number-one
enemy right at the top align you feel
about that like we should start making
some moves like just do it like shown
them the competition crushing them is
always the best way to get them to open
their eye and say damn he's right we've
gotta get this going love that love that
let's definitely get him kick up the ass
and get in get cool man alright so point
five next up how did that come about did
they approach you or is something you
realize it's time to me yeah so I I kind
of got tired of the agency grind like I
was like just in this cycle of auditing
audit and auditing auditing and I kind
of started to feel like I wanted to be
the person responsible for seeing the
end result all the way through so I had
a feeling that it was time to move on
and I just put a couple of applications
out there I went into my network and saw
you know who was hiring for what and I
also saw that pipedrive the the hiring
manager a pipedrive for this SEO role
was a former consultant that I had
worked with in the past okay
yeah yeah yeah yeah so I had to connect
there so I saw they were hiring for SEO
leader
I knew the hiring manager pipedrive was
based in New York I had I had experience
doing SEO work for pipedrive competitors
so it just made a lot of sense and it
was a no-brainer I mean I by the time I
initiated that conversation with the
hiring manager to the time I got hired
was a really short process like it
happened really fast they were they were
like really excited about just bringing
me on so it happened within I would say
about a week week and a half like there
was a done deal and yeah and then I'm
and then I you know then I went from you
know two years of agency grinding to my
first in-house in-house SEO role man and
then it was after the races from there
how was that transition moving from
client work to I guess you were just
working on plates right rankings and for
anyone that doesn't know what pipedrive
is it's basically a sales bastes you're
in customer relationship management
system to help you manage your leads and
botanically manage your pipeline and get
more deals done that's right yeah that's
right so pipe tribe was cool man I I
really loved working there they're the
people were really smart so one thing a
lot of people don't know is that it was
it was a company that started in a place
called Estonia British yeah which is
like a small little European country
it's also the birthplace of companies
like Skype okay yeah so some major
companies I've actually come out of
Estonia and it's becoming like the
Eastern European tech hub and it's a
it's a cool country I've been there
probably like 12 times so like whenever
people ask me what's the most random
fact about you it's like yeah I've been
to Estonia 12 times like what the hell
is that what's it like out there I've
actually meant to be going to a stack do
that scene oh really dude so it's you
know it's cool
it's it's very kind of it's it's hip
it's happening like it's kind of a
trendy country now like you're starting
to see a lot of digital nomads going
there and stuff like that a lot of tech
companies getting started and the one
thing I think I was most surprised about
when I went there was the fact that you
know it could be one o'clock in the
morning and the Sun could still be up it
has it has
kind of that that it's it's it's
geographically in a weird place to where
like it could be midnight and the Sun is
still you know Sun setting so he has
good eyes then yeah I did yeah yeah it's
it's a fun town though I love the talent
specifically the capital city so good
please yeah nice okay so the pipedrive
yes a bit bit of a contrast from client
work to actually working on their own
rankings I guess and helping them
acquire more customers is that right
straight up yeah straight up so it was
just hard core but that's a CRM dude
it's doing SEO for CRM is tough but that
is tough man
it's like ridiculously competitive
there's there's so many companies trying
to rank for like the same kinds of terms
and I think the way you win there is you
know you you've got it you've got to go
big with brands like brand and CRM is
really big it's really important and
then there's a lot of gold in the
longtail as well but I remember there
was also like a lot of just foundational
things that needed to be fixed that pipe
drive so like there was a lot of like
every company has this problem but
essentially like the blog became like a
wasteland of low quality pages so we had
to do like this massive content cleanup
project and then in terms of just like
building the right kinds of targeted
landing pages to the right kinds of
keyword alignment product pages feature
pages all that fun stuff we had to knock
all that out good it so I like what you
said then two things gold in the
longtail for anyone that's tuning in
that doesn't quite understand what long
tail is when it comes to SEO search
engine optimization getting found on
Google organically can you explain a
little bit more what that means good
selling yeah brother so you know
basically you have like these really big
fat juicy terms which are the short tail
so typically the fewer phrases that are
in a keyword the bigger the search
volume but also the more competition so
like one of the big keywords that like
every CRM company was dying to rank for
and now it's just too hard is what is
CRM like that very top of funnel classic
SEO definition style content
but now it's just too it's too tough so
you know we we kind of stayed away from
stuff like that and we started to think
more about like who are the kinds of
people that that need help so we
identified like sales managers okay that
is a good ICP now what are the problems
that sales managers deal with well
forecasting how to how to hire and grow
a sales team how to manage your sales
team remotely what are the right
activity metrics for STRs you know all
these comp plans right so catching them
early before they think like we said you
know what let's catch them early let's
not even think about like oh I need a
CRM today or how do I switch my CRM or
why do I need to move to the cloud or
CRM integrations and all that stuff we
started thinking about like the problems
that sales managers have we just started
creating a ton of content around that
doing interviews with sales people ask
them what they're struggling with in
their day to day that became the content
strategy essentially and then aligned
those topics back to longtail keyword
opportunities that was basically the
name of the game love that an almost
brings us back to the start really
in terms of answering questions what
you're doing in terms of your music blog
that's that did he be - act like when I
went to sales hacker so fast forward a
little bit I had a good run at pipedrive
learned a ton and then what I realized
was I wanted to work remotely okay I
wanted to work remotely okay I left
because I was just getting tired of in
New York City grind like getting on the
subway you know getting on the metro
like you know three hours a day
commuting was a train traffic you know I
used to live uptown of the Bronx yeah
and pipedrive was like downtown so I
just kind of got tired of just like that
grind and then the other thing I didn't
like was I found office life to be quite
distracting like I realized how much
time was just wasted in an office you
know people playing ping pong
distractions you know all that kind of
stuff you know stopped working at Friday
at 2 o'clock to have beers like you know
I'm gonna get done kind of guy so I
was just thinking like man and plus I
wanted to travel I wanted to just travel
and go places and work remotely doing
that so I I had
gotten in contact with max children who
founded sales hacker he actually he
actually hit me up because he saw a blog
article that I've ran on a website
called single grain okay yeah I did a SC
I did an SEO case study of a million
backlinks on single grain calm and you
know that project got widely circulated
much like how you said you were reading
my case study blog on my LinkedIn that's
the thing people don't understand about
blogging is like you can get career
opportunities because someone saw
something you wrote and was really
impressed by it and that's that's
exactly what happened with sales actor
you know
max max was looking for someone to lead
growth you know the big the big value
prop was remote work I wouldn't have to
commute anymore and I could we go to
places like Hawaii if I wanted to which
I did I spent a month in Hawaii just
working remotely it was the oh man
that sounds sweet yeah I did it was
sweet it was sweet was my first time in
Hawaii I was like man I always wanted to
go to Hawaii and I know like all these
people go there and like their
honeymoons and stuff but like you know
I'm a young single chap let me just let
me just get out there and just
experience it and man it was awesome
like I can't wait to go back someday
with the rest of the cell cycle team or
so is 100% remote company go to go to
but I mean when you went to Hawaii was
that with the rest of the guys I was
kind of a no I just went solo oh nice I
just yeah you know what it was I you
know living in New York City like your
feet don't touch the soil it's a
concrete jungle man so you know you
don't get exposed to nature and I'm like
man I just want to go somewhere like
where is the most natural beautiful
place I can go in the US and like I
could have went to Florida but you know
it's like everyone goes there and plus I
live here now so I'm like let me just go
somewhere wild and like they've got
direct flights from JFK to Honolulu
no-brainer so it's funny you should
mention that my gourmet feel and say
rather wants to go Hawaii she wanted to
go to our honeymoon but it's an 11 hour
flight from the UK and we just had a
baby so I don't think it's gonna get
have to wait a few years for that one
yeah you should do it that definitely
definitely on the bucket list that's for
sure
cool so sales hacker this was a unique
thing for you then working remotely yeah
it's a bit more about the transition
tell us a bit more about some of the
lessons that you learn in terms of
business terms and marketing the time
from from there yeah yeah so the one
thing I learned pretty fast at sales
hacker was and I should have done this
at pipedrive the first thing I did when
I got into sales hacker was just
interview customers and interview
members of the community good and if I
would have done that a pipe driver I
probably would have gotten up to speed a
lot faster I think with pipe drive I
just kind of rushed into tactics which
it wasn't necessarily a bad move but if
I could if I could do it over I probably
would have spent like a week talking to
customers
and listening to sales calls and that's
what I did at sales hacker and that was
pretty eye-opening because it basically
told me the strategy of what we have to
do from a website experience standpoint
from a content strategy standpoint from
a PETA ad standpoint all that stuff like
I just got I understood it so much
better just because I spent that first
week talking to people in the business
and you know the ultimate goal was to
grow sales hacker and just dominate from
a brand present standpoint because the
one thing sales hacker had going for it
was it was a beast of a brand and we had
really good presence and respect in the
world of b2b sales but what we didn't
have was I think like a structure in
place for growing traffic and getting
the digital business to a place that it
needed to be in because the CEO Sacre
started as an events company and the way
that sales hacker really got off the
ground was max was doing these local
meetups in big cities so he would go to
like San Francisco LA Dallas Austin
whatever and host these local meetups
and grow the the email list that way
grow the contact list and then get you
know all the biggest and baddest names
and b2b sales to become contributors on
the blog Gotha so with with those two
things that was kind of the growth Macke
in the early days of sales hacker but
then what max realized was we gotta get
out of events
it's too risky he was way ahead of the
curve on that cuz you know then
something like coronavirus comes around
and boom if you're an events company had
done so he saw well in advance that this
had to be transition to digital and
that's what I was brought in for to take
basically an events based business model
bring it to digital figure out how to
monetize things like sponsored webinars
sponsored white papers email promotion
so we were essentially a traffic and
growth mechanism for the partners that
we worked for and worked with because we
had the community we had the audience
and we were the unbiased source of
information for a lot of these brands so
you know coupling all that together with
my SEO knowledge and growth really was a
perfect match yes so it sounds like you
essentially moved the platform from
offline to online and you like you said
max was way ahead of the curve if he was
doing that all those years ago and so
did you have a strategy in terms of was
it was it easy to not to know what to
actually do cuz I know you mentioned you
hosted webinars which working really
well now white papers and things like
that how did you know what to do how did
you actually make it a success in terms
of that transition from meeting offline
to the online to digital yeah you know
what I realized was the appetite for
[Music]
companies to to get into the digital was
really big it was like the appetite was
absolutely there like they were almost
rather spend digital money because they
were starting to struggle with things
like you know tracking the ROI of events
you know the high cost of expenses that
come along with that
and they were really the companies were
realizing you know what if I could just
do a sponsored webinar two times a month
I can accelerate my pipeline away faster
than doing one event every six months or
one in-person event every three months
so I think we kind of just played to
that need in the market and you know we
were growing the blog
a lot of top of funnel gold was
happening we're really starting to
perfect our content game and we were
also really good about creating a lot of
buzz and excitement and quite frankly
noise on LinkedIn and Twitter and stuff
like that so so the social media hype
definitely played into it you know
without without great content marketing
it wouldn't have happened that that was
the back that was the bloodline of the
business you knows great content
marketing so with without that I don't I
don't think the business could have been
successful that was that was the most
important thing and what would you say
was the secret so that was it because a
lot of the staff were in sales their
self or was it because you're
interviewing your customers or yeah so
the the main thing was basically you
know we had this contributor network and
it still exists today but the basis of
the of the company's content strategy is
not hiring writers it's finding other
people in the industry that want to
showcase their thought leadership that
won't express their point of view on a
certain topic you know so we've get like
you know like the the VP of customer
success at HubSpot to do a thought
leadership piece on you know how to
scale your your support team right
tactical very tactical evergreen content
strategy so we basically just hit up all
these people and be like hey do you want
to contribute on the sales hacker blog
you know we have this number of email
subscribers our blog that's this amount
of traffic you know we're a grown
community in the space will amplify your
stuff will blow it up on social media
you know just to kind of just do
something cool and interesting just for
fun really and to educate and then of
course you you know you get the benefits
out of it like we're promoting you and
all this stuff and that was really the
name of the game we you know we started
doing a lot of outreach around that like
hitting up influential people and asked
them if they wanted to contribute to the
blog and then what we would do is we
would we would reverse the SEO product
process reverse engineering so we
wouldn't we wouldn't give the writer
like a brief and say you have to hit
this keyword we would say what is a
topic you want to write about because
you're great at it and they would
suggest a couple things and like oh yeah
let's do this cool great yeah
then we
get that content and then we we would
reverse engineer it to align it to a
certain keyword and then we do some
manual optimization so we would just let
every right or no look we reserve the
right to tweak some things for SEO but
we essentially got free content from
everybody we didn't pay any writers to
do any any work we got all free content
everything was free just took a salad
and effort yeah and I guess in return
the contributors got traffic to their
own sites and they raised their brand
profile and they got traffic to that
LinkedIn and stuff like that and work
off the back of it that's right that's
right so that was basically the
marketing flywheel fantastic okay so
that was that was sales hacker was I
outreach at the same kind of time or
yeah give us give us quick snapshot
there's a bit more to cover in terms of
kind of building up to where you are now
yeah yeah so the acquisition happened
and then I did basically a couple months
of growth marketing consulting for
outreach helped with the transition of
sales hacker becoming independent to
becoming now part of a bigger you know
umbrella so I just kind of hope that the
transition give them some growth
recommendations and then ultimately what
I realized was I wanted to get out of
the world with b2b sales like I had been
in it for a long time you know from the
pipedrive days all the way through the
end of sales hacker it was all the same
kind of content so I just wanted to
switch things up I wanted a new
challenge I wanted to kind of get out of
that game so enter you know Nextiva
cloud communication company and what got
me really excited about this was the
opportunity in the market so I went from
a very saturated world of CRM and stuff
like that to a world of cloud
communication where you know only 20% of
the market has been penetrated so
there's still 80% of companies out there
that are using you know old-school
outdated landlines PBX systems like even
you know if you go to any major hotel
like Las Vegas for example you're gonna
see those old-school of via phone you
know being used in like the nicest
hotels in the world and eventually
they're gonna
have to switch that out right so there's
you know millions of businesses like
that that still exist that need to make
the change and now with kovat 19 you're
kind of seeing the acceleration of that
of that demand surgeon so what I was
excited about was being a big player in
a market that has a ton of money up for
grabs so everyone is growing in the
space and the question is not about you
know who's growing and who's not the
question is about who's gonna grow the
fastest and who's gonna gobble up the
market share the fastest before it gets
all gobbled up so that's actually the
biggest challenge who's it's not who's
gonna grow but it's who's gonna grow the
fastest and that's what I think was
really appealing for me in terms of
Nextiva yeah love the challenge and just
quickly what are some of the strategies
that you've put in place to make that
happen is it mainly an SEO foundation or
is there a few other few other channels
that we perhaps not touched on so much
yeah man you know it really comes down
to a couple of channels one is
definitely for sure SEO very important
in this industry and that's the other
thing too like I won't work in
industries where SEO isn't a big
opportunity you know I'm not gonna work
for some obscure you know medical device
companies that has no search volume
around the business because you know why
waste my strength you know why go work
somewhere where I'm not gonna be able to
maximize my my value so I lend
preference toward industries that have
big SEO opportunity big search
opportunity in general paid and organic
search so-so PPC definitely a huge a
huge thing in the world of cloud
communication very very competitive and
also like review sites and affiliate
strategies are a big deal so so yeah
yeah so the way that Google kind of has
shifted the game a little bit is you
know you used to be able to rank for
things like business VoIP
huge keyword you can't now because you
know websites doing top 10 best business
VoIP companies top 10 best this you know
top ten best that they are the ones that
are winning now because Google
understands the way shoppers want to buy
and shoppers want to see a big selection
of choices and they want to see peer
reviews they want to see ratings they
want to read what's happening what other
companies or other customers are saying
and they want to be able to compare
comparison points of features and cost
and all this stuff yeah so so if you're
a vendor website that kind of cuts you
out of the picture because if you think
about it it wouldn't really be fair for
a vendor company to rank number one for
a term like business VoIP because it's
just gonna be one one choice right and
and shoppers want to see lots of choices
and and in highly competitive markets
like cloud communication that's just the
way it goes go to so it sounds quite
quite a challenge I guess you have to
look at more niche based search terms to
get your phone yeah yeah you do you do
yeah you got it so like I said with
pipedrive the gold is in the longtail
same exists here finding those problems
that shoppers might have you know how
many phone lines did I need for my
business how much business wipe system
costs all those kinds of things
yeah integrations like all that stuff
like if you build content around that
you're gonna do well yeah so that's it
for anyone tuning in this wants to get
to grips with SEO start talking to your
customers start talking it to your sales
team understand the problems that your
buyers face of let's say the top five
the top ten common objections of common
problems that are coming to yourselves
to you more coming down doing the
business each and every day and put
together content around it build a
content strategy whether it's data
content on the information page and
website your blog even your LinkedIn
posts and that's it all the way to the
ads as well you know we we use words in
the ads that we hear a customers say you
know I mean we use trigger words that we
hear them say all the time so so I think
that's just a golden strategy another
tactical bit of advice I would say is
there's
tool called answer the public okay it's
a very unknown tool but essentially what
it is is a keyword research tool now the
cool thing about it is it won't give you
search volume so I think a lot of I
think a lot of markers they they get a
little too obsessed over search volume
as a metric you shouldn't care about
that as much yes it's important but what
I like about answer the public is you
could put a term in there like marketing
automation software hmm and it'll spit
back at you question based ideas so
it'll add things like what how when
where why and it'll scrape Google for
all these longtail opportunities that
are out there and present ideas to you
on how to create what when how why where
keyword keyword based content around
that topic which is a brilliant move I
think is highly underrated and I would
definitely recommend that for any any
company looking to improve their their
concept marketing that is an awesome
tool is that free to use free to use
okay
awesome well it's been great learning
your story Gitana and some of the places
you work some of the lessons that you've
learned along the way and now I'd like
to take a little bit of a shift I know
you're you're pretty big on LinkedIn
you've got a decent following we talked
about at the very start of the podcast
that clips that you did in terms of cold
cold pitching so you know tell us a
little bit about that quickly I know
we've come to the end of the show but
tell us a bit bit more so basically and
you've been went around the shopping
mall was it cold pitching people like
people do when they spam your LinkedIn
that's right that's right yeah man so I
wanted to do a social experiment it was
just meant to be a cool idea more than
anything else something fun and engaging
and entertaining but essentially you
know I was just getting frustrated with
the level of spam like I'm sure a lot of
people are and rather than like
complaining about it which a lot of
people do they're like oh I'm tired of
all the spam on LinkedIn it's become
with spam factory I was like what could
I do that's like interesting and fun
that would drive that point all the way
home and I just had a random idea like
what if I took all those annoying cold
spam pitches that I get in my DM that
like everyone gets and just go up to
random people and start talking
I'm about it so I like would go up to
random people at the mall and be like
excuse me um I think there may be some
synergy here do you have 10 minutes on
your calendar for next week so we can
talk about your business goals like one
guy I think was like get away from me
did anyone catch on to what what you're
actually do you know it was interesting
towards like we were doing it for like
two hours
you know like towards like the last 10
minutes like security started following
me they're like hey what are you doing
over here and I just like ran I just ran
out to the parking garage and ran out
into the street and then I was fine
really amazing so we've talked a lot
about SEO and when it comes to digital
and marketing would you say that that's
your favorite channel I would say search
engines period are my favorite channel
so I really love organic and paid search
though that's kind of my jam and then
the other the other thing that I love
geeking out over is once you get traffic
to that page landing page testing and
conversion strategies to try and get
better conversion rates on your on your
most important pages nice and quick one
and not a question I usually ask but as
your digital marketing guru and this
kind of stuff and if someone's
quick-quick basic in terms of converting
if you've got any any advice I caught
often put tips on this for anyone this
on their home page for example any quick
ways to build trust so if someone's
thinking or I'm only getting one lead a
week or one liter month any quick tips
on how people can improve conversions on
the home page that they might have what
it thought of yeah yeah for sure so kind
of like what I said before like when it
goes back to just asking your customers
what they want and then giving it to
them it's the same story here
the only the only thing is that it's
harder to figure out what they want so
the way to figure out what they want is
by using the tool called like hot jar
for example where you can get heat map
data and based on the behavior of the
user on the page you start to study
patterns and trends you start to look at
what's hot and what's not and then you
start to you start to watch the session
recording
you can see where their mouse moves you
can see how they scroll up and down the
page you can see how they scan the
information you can start to get a sense
over time of where they're getting stuck
and you may be able to figure out things
like well you see this module right here
which we thought was really important
it's actually not that important
the heatmap data suggests that they're
skipping right over it if you have
pricing at the bottom of the page and
you have a bunch of other content like
in the middle and they're just skipping
over the middle content going right down
to the pricing what does that tell you
well you gotta move pricing up all right
like that kind of thing so I just spent
a lot of time looking at data and and
trying to figure out based on the data
what is it that people actually want
that we're not giving them and then just
coming up with like different versions
of pages and and really just always
testing man like that's what it comes
down to like no one really has the right
answers every traffic type is different
every audience is different every
shopper is different and what may work
in one industry may not work in another
so it really just comes down to using
tools like hot jar and seeing what's
working what's not coming up with new
variations of pages and just running
them against each other continuously
until you find like a really good
version that converts better than all
the rest of it that's that's what it
comes down to definitely oh jars are
really good too and we use it here at
web trace for some of our clients lights
and I think they've even got a free
trial right yeah yeah so they've got
they've got a free completely free
version ok premium yes I think that's a
freemium play and then once you get
maxed out I think you gotta start paying
for it but totally worth the you know
whatever they charge it's you know the
one thing I was surprised about with hot
jars how low how low it costs I think
it's like 50 a month or something like
that like that's that's pretty damned
good like the value get for 50 bucks a
month is like insane on that so yeah I
would totally recommend it definitely
man so if you're curious about how
people are interacting with your site
perhaps not getting as many conversions
as many leads or sales as you think you
should be install one haja free tool and
start looking at date or get your web
developer to do it and yeah and start
enjoying the rewards cool man before we
wrap things up I know you've got a
decent following on LinkedIn Gaetano I
know your post get really good engaged
when you put out some really quick
the video we just talked about and all
sorts of other things any tips for for
people that want to build up their
linked engagement and on how they can do
that yeah brother I would say just you
know be yourself you know that's I think
that's I know it sounds fluffy and
cliche but like for example the last
video I posted was a video of me playing
the guitar and and doing a song in
Spanish you know and what I've come to
realize is you know is it likely that
your customers and the people that will
buy from you and the people that want to
do business with you that they probably
like the same things that you like yeah
they actually do a lot of people love
music a lot of people love soccer so
when you talk about these non-business e
topics that are highly relatable you
show your human side you show your
vulnerability and you stand out because
unfortunately what's happening now if
LinkedIn is everyone's talking about
like the same kinds of stuff so it can
come across quite robotic quite
formulaic white cookie cutter so I would
say don't be afraid to you know jump out
over the ledge a little bit and don't
feel like you have to be boxed in and
always talk about growth marketing or
b2b sales like metrics and all the you
know the geek stuff you know you can
switch it up a little bit and still be
highly relatable and stand out from the
crowd a bit more awesome dude really
sound advice love that right katana if
you could thank just one person either
dead or alive having positive influence
on yourself and your career who would
that be and why that's a good one
my grandma grandma was a really strong
woman she had cancer for 15 years fought
through it raised me and my younger
brothers she she was the head chef of an
Italian restaurant
New York family-owned business and you
know I grew up in the restaurant with my
grandma cooking and you know I was 12
years old
you know slicing up the mozzarella
cheese it was that kind of upbringing
that I had they're really close to
Grandma and you know with that she total
total Saint and you know without her
definitely wouldn't be you know what
doing what I'm doing today that's lovely
man well everyone you've been tuning
into Sam's business growth show while we
sit down with business leaders experts
and entrepreneurs from around the globe
we found out their story how digital
marketing is helping along the way and
the exclusive tips and insights to help
you skyrocket your business Gaetano
tell us a bit more about the best way
people get in touch with yourself how
they can connect with you and how we can
learn more yeah I appreciate that Sam so
just go follow my podcast
it's the musicians in tech podcasts so
we are basically connecting business
leaders and musicians worldwide we
interview music executives music
producers all that kind of stuff if you
want to find out specifically about me
just me up on LinkedIn go to Caetano
nino de Nardi and you can find me there
also dude thanks very much for coming on
thanks brother appreciate you having me
are you tired of constantly hunting for
new customers you could be missing out
on regular inbound opportunities all
because your website isn't on the first
page of Google perhaps you're already
spending lots of money on advertising
but your website is failing to convert
all of your hard-earned visitors into a
consistent flow of new customers if
you'd like to learn more about our
unusual approach that brings ideal
clients straight to you connect with Sam
Dunning on LinkedIn or book a free 20
minute consultation by a web choice you
can calm that's web choice UK Calm
subscribe today for more digital
marketing sales and business growth tips
from the experts